Documentation to generate Api Docs on Launchpad (#119)
canonical/launchpad-manual: how-to/launchpad-api-docs.rst

Launchpad API Docs generation
=============================

The Launchpad API documentation portal is available at
`<https://api.launchpad.net/>`_. It contains summaries of the different
web service versions, and links to version-specific documents.

To define our web resources we are using the 
`lazr.restful <https://lazrrestful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/webservice-declarations.html>`_ 
decorators and capabilities. These decorators are also responsible to generate
the related documentation for the exported field.

We can build Api Docs using ``make apidoc`` command: this command will 
generate the documentation under ``lib/canonical/launchpad/apidoc``. 
Note that we should delete the aforementioned folder in order to generate

> fresh docs. 

Reviewer: Perhaps it would be good to put all the commands you need to run in order.

```
$ rm -rf lib/canonical/launchpad/apidoc
$ make apidoc
```

> The command above is responsible to call the 

Reviewer: for calling

``utilities/create-lp-wadl-and-apidoc.py`` script and generate the related
documentation using the ``lp.services.webservice.wadl`` module utilities.

This scripts will create the related ``wadl`` and then it will translated to
``HTML``. During this process ``generate_html`` function will be called: this
function is responsible to map ``wadl`` entries to ``HTML``.
To do that we use as template the file called ``wadl-to-refhtml.xsl``: in 
this file we can also apply patches to fix not-well generated entry points
for given ``wadl`` entries.

Example
~~~~~~~

For example for the ``SocialAccount`` webservice we used the
``@exported_as_webservice_entry("social_account", as_of="beta")`` decorator.
Thanks to that the ``social_account`` entry is created.
We can use the aforementioned id to refer this ``wadl`` entry in the ``wadl-to-refhtml.xls`` file.

Let's say that we want to change the entry URL
from ``URL: https://api.launchpad.net/beta/``
to ``URL: https://api.launchpad.net/beta/<person.name>/+socialaccount/<id>``:
we should create an entry inside the ``find-entry-uri`` template inside the 

> ``wadl-to-refhtml.xls`` file and we should search our ``wadl`` entry using the 

Reviewer: search _for_

> ``social_account`` id. After that we can write ``xls`` code that will append the

Reviewer: do you mean `xsl`?

Launchpad API Docs generation
=============================

The Launchpad API documentation portal is available at
`<https://api.launchpad.net/>`_. It contains summaries of the different
web service versions, and links to version-specific documents.

To define our web resources we are using the 
`lazr.restful <https://lazrrestful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/webservice-declarations.html>`_ 
decorators and capabilities. These decorators are also responsible to generate

> the related documentation for the exported field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the related documentation for the exported fields.
```

> We can build Api Docs using ``make apidoc`` command: this command will 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can build API docs using ``make apidoc`` command: this command will 
```

generate the documentation under ``lib/canonical/launchpad/apidoc``. 

> Note that we should delete the aforementioned folder in order to generate

Reviewer 2: Can you please use the `.. note::` syntax?

fresh docs. 

..  code-block:: bash

    $ rm -rf lib/canonical/launchpad/apidoc
    $ make apidoc

The command above is responsible for calling the 

> ``utilities/create-lp-wadl-and-apidoc.py`` script and generate the related

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``utilities/create-lp-wadl-and-apidoc.py`` script and generating the related
```

documentation using the ``lp.services.webservice.wadl`` module utilities.

> This scripts will create the related ``wadl`` and then it will translated to

Reviewer 2: Either "These scripts" or "This script".

> This scripts will create the related ``wadl`` and then it will translated to

Reviewer 2: ``wadl`` file

``HTML``. During this process ``generate_html`` function will be called: this
function is responsible to map ``wadl`` entries to ``HTML``.

> To do that we use as template the file called ``wadl-to-refhtml.xsl``: in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For that we use ``wadl-to-refhtml.xsl`` template. In 
```

this file we can also apply patches to fix not-well generated entry points
for given ``wadl`` entries.

> Example

Reviewer 2: great idea to have an example!

Launchpad API Docs generation
=============================

The Launchpad API documentation portal is available at
`<https://api.launchpad.net/>`_. It contains summaries of the different
web service versions, and links to version-specific documents.

To define our web resources we are using the 
`lazr.restful <https://lazrrestful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/webservice-declarations.html>`_ 
decorators and capabilities. These decorators are also responsible to generate
the related documentation for the exported fields.

We can build API docs using ``make apidoc`` command: this command will 
generate the documentation under ``lib/canonical/launchpad/apidoc``. 

.. note::

    Note that we should delete the aforementioned folder in order to generate
    fresh docs. 

..  code-block:: bash

    $ rm -rf lib/canonical/launchpad/apidoc
    $ make apidoc

The command above is responsible for calling the 
``utilities/create-lp-wadl-and-apidoc.py`` script and generating the related
documentation using the ``lp.services.webservice.wadl`` module utilities.

> This script will create the related ``wadl`` file and then it will translated to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This script will create the related ``wadl`` file and translate it to
```
